# Practice Quiz:  Understanding Slowness

*Congratulations! You passed! Grade received 100%*

### Question 1

1. Which of the following will an application spend the longest time retrieving data from?

> - [ ] CPU L2 cache
> - [ ] RAM
> - [ ] Disk
> - [x] **The network**

*Right on! An application will take the longest time trying to retrieve data from the network.*

### Question 2

2. Which tool can you use to verify reports of 'slowness' for web pages served by a web server you manage?

> - [ ] The top tool
> - [x] **The ab tool**
> - [ ] The nice tool
> - [ ] The pidof tool

*The ab tool is an Apache Benchmark tool used to figure out how slow a web server is based on average timing of requests.*

### Question 3

3. If our computer running Microsoft Windows is running slow, what performance monitoring tools can we use\
 to analyze our system resource usage to identify the bottleneck? (Check all that apply)

> - [x] **Performance Monitor**
> - [x] **Resource Monitor**
> - [ ] The nice tool
> - [ ] The pidof tool

*Performance Monitor is a system monitoring program that provides basic CPU and memory resource measurements in Windows.*\
*Resource Monitor is an advanced resource monitoring utility that provides data on hardware and software resources in real time.*

### Question 4

4. Which of the following programs is likely to run faster and more efficiently, with the least slowdown?

> - [ ] A program with a cache stored on a hard drive
> - [x] **AA program small enough to fit in RAM**
> - [ ] A program that reads files from an optical disc
> - [ ] A program that retrieves most of its data from the Internet

*Since RAM access is faster than accessing a disk or network, a program that can fit in RAM will run faster.*

### Question 5

5. What might cause a single application to slow down an entire system? (Check all that apply)

> - [x] **A memory leak**
> - [ ] The application relies on a slow network connection
> - [x] **Handling files that have grown too large**
> - [ ] Hardware faults

*Memory leaks happen when an application doesn't release memory when it is supposed to.*\
*If files generated by the application have grown overly large, slowdown will occur if*\
*the application needs to store a copy of the file in RAM in order to use it.*