# Final Project

In this module, you’ll put everything you’ve learned so far into action! You’ll apply your scripting knowledge\
to tackle a challenging final project: writing a script that scans for a specific error in the log files.\
You'll create a problem statement to understand the challenge, conduct some research to see what options are\
available, then begin planning how you intend to solve the problem. Lastly, you'll write the code to implement\
your solution!

## Learning Objectives

- Approach a problem using frameworks and best practices
- Formulate a problem statement to understand the inputs and outputs of a script
- Create a planned approach to solve the problem
- Write a complex script to solve a problem

## Getting Ready for the Final Project

### Writing a Script from the Ground Up

**Steps for coding project:**

1. Understand the problem statement.

> *This includes: spelling out what needs to be done and identifying what the given inputs*\
*and desired outputs are for that program that we need to write.*

2. Research

> *This means figuring out how we can tackle the problem by the tools provided by the*\
*Python standard library or by external modules.*\
*This research phase also includes looking at the documentation of the modules, classes,*\
*and functions that we'll need to use, and understanding how they should be applied.*

3. Planning

> *This means thinking about what data types are useful for our solution, the order of operations*\
*that we need to perform, and how all the pieces have come together to form our solution.*\
*Writing down the plan helps us focus on how we're going to do things and identify any problems our plan might have.*\
*It's a common practice to write a design document at this stage, detailing the problem statement,*\
*the tools that will be used to solve it, and the plan of attack towards a solution.*

4. Writing

> *Finally, once we have a clear plan, we do the actual writing of the script. This step includes not*\
*only writing the code, but also checking that the code does what it's supposed to do.*


**Sometimes, it's tempting to just jump right into the coding stage, about spending any necessary time to fully**\
**understand the problem, research tools, or plan the solution. But our experience shows us spending a while getting**\
**familiar with what we're trying to do and what tools we have available to do it can make a big difference.**\
**Both in how long it takes to do the actual implementation and ultimately how well our solution behaves.**

### Project Problem Statement
***
Imagine a scenario, one of the servers used by your company runs a service called ticky. This service is an internal\
ticketing system used by a lot of different teams in the company to manage their work. The service logs a bunch\
of events to syslog, both when it runs successfully and when it encounters errors. Developers of the\
service are asking for your help with getting some information out of those logs, to better understand how\
the software is being used and how to improve it. No sweat. As an up and coming IT Professional, you enthusiastically\
accept this mission.\
So for your final project in this course, you'll write some automation scripts that will process the system log and\
generate a bunch of reports based on the information extracted from log files. The log lines follow a pattern similar\
to the ones we've seen before. Something like this:\
When the service runs correctly, it logs an info message to syslog, stating what it's done, the username, and the ticket\
number related to the event. If the service encounters a problem, it logs in error message to the syslog, indicating\
what was wrong and the username that triggered the action that caused the problem. The developers of the service want\
two different reportsout of this data. The first one is a ranking of errors generated by the system. This means a list\
of all error messages logged, and how many times each of them was found, not taking into account the users involved.\
They should be sorted by the most common error to the least common error. The second one is a usage statistics for the\
service. This means, a list of all users that have used the system including how many info messages and how many error\
messages they've generated. This report should be sorted by username.\
To visualize the data in these reports, you want to generate a couple of webpages that'll be served by a web server\
running on the machine. To do this, you can make use of a script that's already in the system called csv_ to_html.py.\
This script converts the data in a CSV file into an HTML file containing a table with the data. Then, put the files\
in the directory that's used by the webserver to display the webpages. The goal is to have one script that can get all\
the necessary work done automatically, every day without any user interaction.\
This script doesn't need to do all the work itself. It can call on other scripts to do individual task and then put\
the results together. In fact, we recommend splitting the task so that each piece can be written and tested separately.
***

### Help with Research and Planning

We've now gone over the problems statement of our final project. At first sight, it might sound pretty complex.\
But let's break it down into smaller more digestible pieces and discuss how we can move into the next steps\
to do the necessary research and planning.

- [ ] Example #1

**Problem statement:**
> *Find some specific log lines in the sy log file.*

**Research, Planning:**
> *Use regular expressions to find them. It'll be easier to extract information you want that way.*\
*To figure out the right regular expression, you can use a website like regex101.com*\
*which can help you test your expression and understand what's going on with it.*

**Writing:**
> *Once you have a pattern that you think and work, try it out in a Python interpreter to verify*\
*that it matches the right lines and captures the right information.*

- [ ] Example #2

**Problem statement:**
> *Need to count how many errors are of the same type, and how many info and error messages there are for a given user*

**Research, Planning:**
> *What data structure might help you with that? If you're thinking dictionaries,then you're on the right track.*\
*You'll want to use a couple of different dictionaries. One to account error messages and another to count per user usage.*\
*You'll then need to sort the data in a dictionary's by different criteria.*

**Writing:**
> *Once you have a pattern that you think and work, try it out in a Python interpreter to verify*\
*that it matches the right lines and captures the right information.*

***
**Output:**

The output of your Python script should be a couple of CSV files. Each of them containing the names of the columns\
and the data in the order that it needs to be presented. Once those files are generated, you'll need to call\
the CSV html.py script to create HTML files based on CSV data. You'll have access to look at how the script works\
but the key is to pass two parameters to it. The name of the CSV file to read and the name of the HTML file generate.\
You could do this last step from either a Python script or a bash script. Since the script will be only calling\
commands and moving files, we recommend doing a bash. Keep it short and sweet.
***

We recommend that you research, plan and even write the pieces of code all before starting the actual lab.